some aware that some people's favorite
thing to complain about is that the
comment section is closed I've used
YouTube now several different periods of
had periods in the comment section was
totally open and I wasn't monitoring at
all I wasn't interacting with people
I've had periods of time when the
comment section was open and I was
reading the comments as they popped up
and really interacting with people and
it had periods time when it was
completely shut I couldn't make a
digression here at a note look guys I
want veganism to succeed as a movement
and in as much as I no particular vegans
on youtube via the internet or what have
you I want vegans to succeed as
individual human beings as well I don't
hate these people not even when I have
conflicts with them you know I said that
recently too pal simian you know pal
simian is a guy I've had conflicts with
obviously we don't have much in common
if we knew each other in real life I
doubt we'd be good friends but
nevertheless I don't want him to fail I
want him to win he's a vegan his hearts
in the right place and you know even on
a personal level if I found out he was
getting married to my sister I'd be
happy for them I mean Palestinians a bit
of an eccentric he's a bit of a weird
guy but I don't care go ahead marry my
sister no hope you guys are happy
together I really don't you know I
really don't have any you know emotional
or personal grudge against these people
um and you know I saw a comment the
other day from vegan revolution also
known as Josh Randall what up josh Josh
was commenting it was interesting
comment from him I sympathized even
though I disagree Josh was commenting
that YouTube had created a situation
where the audience absolutely expects
filmmakers to work for free for
filmmakers to film edit and upload you
know like polished works of art with no
possible remuneration and what was
interesting about this to me the part
that rings true is he talked about the
fact they're people in the audience who
will actually hate you who will respond
negatively if you openly talk about
donations beautifully talk about you
know patreon
or Kickstarter or some other method of
collecting donations to reward you for
you know this filmmaking after the fact
I mean it was interesting I was
interesting because I mean josh is a
background as a real filmmaker working
in the film industry himself and he sees
it from that perspective I think you
know Aaron Janice she has a background
in music and she really sees making
videos similar to the kind of creative
artist process in the in the music
industry in the recording as a recording
artist you know she thinks of it in a
very different way again and you know
there are people in the audience who
think of you know a YouTube video as
equivalent to putting a you know a tweet
on Twitter or a status update on
facebook and it can be there's nothing
wrong with that perception you know
YouTube can be a totally casual low
effort you know it can be it can truly
just be opening a door into your life to
let other people see a glance of what
you're doing in your apartment anyway
some YouTube videos are pretty much
exactly that they look like security
camera footage no efforts made to
entertain the audience nah fret so paid
to educate the audience and so on the
trouble is is easy to let your
expectations slip it's easy to without
noticing it slip from an expectation of
oh I'm just going to do this for fun for
a few minutes here and there to an
expectation of I'm a filmmaker I should
be getting paid for my work or a sense
of resentment because again the
resentment can be both ways the audience
can resent the youtuber because they who
are you to think you should get paid for
this it's which is common and the other
hand the the youtuber the person doing
the broadcasting can look at the
audience and resent them because from
the youtubers perspective they're saying
hey don't you realize how many hours a
day I put into this and the number of
hours can be significant it really can
the filming and the editing and keeping
up with the comments section spreading
your message through other portals on
social media when I first got started
just the amount of time to take a video
and post it on reddit I try to have a
discussion on reddit to get people
arrested posted on Facebook or other you
know other websites like that that could
add an hour you know you know when
you're a new YouTube channel if you want
to find your audience and help your
audience find you that's exactly the
kind of work you have to do not even
promoting it just just having that
conversation with people you know so
that those who are interested in your
video whatever might be about have a
chance to find it and obviously by the
way I mean if I'm doing a book review I
at the time I spend I should read the
book you know apart from talking about
it on camera if you're actually doing
content that requires research as it
does you know for for vegan gains for
example I know Richard puts in a lot of
time into researching his videos apart
from performing and editing them so
there can be a lot of resentment and
mismatched expectations both ways but I
say again even though josh is a terrible
human being and he's done so much to not
just insult and defame me and really
tried to hurt me an army and that stuff
is still on the internet and people do
google it people do have been hearing
back just lately from people who googled
my name and found defamation from people
like durianrider and vegan revolution
and it is a problem I mean unfortunately
you know the risk I took in daring to
come on YouTube and talk about vegan
activism it's had a cost its had a
negative impact in my life and that
impact will never go away you know okay
so with all that haven't been said why
have I closed the comment section well
in a lot of ways what it does is it
disambiguate seeeeee the function of
patreon as opposed to YouTube I've had
these different periods on YouTube when
I tried using different methods and I've
got to tell you the period in which I
was happiest for me as the person making
the videos was the period in which i did
get comments i did have interaction
through patreon through people who pay
one dollar a month which is almost
nothing and then i did not have to deal
with a comment section on youtube and if
people emailed me outside of patreon you
know you can email me for any reason but
i would generally write back to them
when they were
send me email messages or facebook
friend requests say no if you want to
talk to me the way to do it is through
patreon and that's for me as a creator
saves a ton of time it just separates
your life in the two halves we're okay
YouTube is where i post content and then
where I hear people interact with people
you know where I can answer your
questions if you have a question you
know because very often I make a video
in response to a question from a patreon
supporter that's where you do it is on
page ROM so guys moving ahead I've tried
I've tried all the different
combinations I've tried having a totally
free form comment section tried having a
controlled and edited comment section I
have had no comment section at all I've
done it all and I've got to tell you
what works for me the best especially if
every hour of the day is being counted
is separating where I can say look if
you want to comment the comment section
is not on YouTube it's on Pedro